https://codepen.io/jeremy-faraone/pen/wvajwgL?editors=1100

Review Questions

    1. What is Semantic HTML? 
        Semantic HTML provides meaning to your content and makes your website readable and easily interpreted.
    2. What is HTML used for? 
        HTML is Hyper Text Markup Language. It is used to create webpages. It is all the text on your page.
    3. What is an attribute and where do we put it? 
        An attribute is a property of an element such as id, title, class, style, etc. You put it inside a tag. 
    4. What is the h1 tag used for? How many times should I use it on a page?
        H1 tag is used for the first heading. You should use it only once because it is formatted differently from the other tags.
    5. Name two tags that have required attributes
        img and a
    6. What do we put in the head of our HTML document? 
        It is the container for title, style, base, link, meta, script and non script.
    7. What is an id? 
        An id attribute specifies a unique id for an HTML element. Can be used by CSS and JS to perform certain tasks.
    8. What elements can I add an id to? 
        You can add and id to any HTML element.
    9. How many times can I use the same id on a page? 
        Only once. You can use multiple id's but one for each different element.
    10. What is a class? 
        A class is an attribute which specifies one or more class names for an HTML element.
    11. What elements can I add a class to? 
        You can add a class to any HTML element.
    12. How many times can I use the same class on a page?
        Only once. You can use multiple classes but one for each different element. 
    13. How do I get my link to open in a new tab?
            <a href="website address"></a>
    14. What is the alt attribute used for?
         The alt attribute is used in HTML to specify alternative text that is to be used when the element cannot be rendered.
    15. How do I reference an id?
        You reference an id with the hashtag #.
    16. What is the difference between a section and a div
        Section and div are similar, however section should be used only if the element's contents would be listed explicitly in the documents
        outline. Divs have no meaning in and of themselves and generally are only used for styling purposes.
    17. What is CSS used for? 
        CSS is cascading style sheets and is used to describe how HTML elements are to be displayed.
    18. How do we select an element? Example - every h2 on the page
        We select an element by using the tag name without the angle brackets. For h2 you would just put h2{}.
    19. What is the difference between a class and an id? - Give me an example of when I might use each one
        The difference is that an id can be used to identify one element, and a class can be used to identify more than one.
        You can use class if you wanted to style all the paragraphs the same throughout the entire website. You can use id if you want to style the heading.
    20. How do we select classes in CSS?
        You select classes in CSS with a period before the elements name, eg; .container
    21. How do we select a p element with a single class of “human””?
            .human p {}
    22. What is a parent child selector? When would this be useful? 
        It selects all elements that are a direct child of the specified element. This is used to match elements that are direct children of other elements which is more precise.
    23. How do you select all links within a div with the class of sidebar?
            .sidebar {}
    24. What is a pseudo selector?
        It is a selector that assists in the selection of somthing that cannot be expressed by a simple selector like hover.
    25. What do we use to change the spacing between lines?
            line-height:
    26. What do we use to change the spacing between letters?
            letter-spacing:
    27. What do we use to to change everything to CAPITALS? lowercase? Capitalize?
            text-transform:uppercase
            text-transform:lowercase
            text-transform:capitalize
    28. How do I add a 1px border around my div that is dotted and black?
            border: 1px;
            color: black;
            border-style: dotted
    29. How do I select everything on the page? 
        You select everything on the page by using the universal selector '*'.
    30. How do I write a comment in CSS?
            /*comment here/*
    31. How do I find out what file I am in, when I am using the command line? 
        You look at the command prompt and the folder you are currently in is right before the '$'.
    32. Using the command line - how do I see a list of files/folders in my current folder?
        To view list of files/folders you type 'ls'. 
    33. How do I remove a file via the command line? Why do I have to be careful with this? 
        You type rm 'plus file name, no quotes'
    34. Why should I use version control? 
        It is important to use version control for documents that need a lot of revision and redrafting and so they can be changed by a different number of users.
    35. How often should I commit to github?
        Everytime you make a change that is worth commiting, but at least a few times an hour.
    36. What is the command we would use to push our repo up to github? 
            git push origin firstname-lastname
    37. Walk me through Lambda's git flow.
        You Fork the repo you want to work on. You then clone the repo. Next you copy address and switch to the terminal.
            git clone "paste url"
            work on file.
            git checkout -b 'firstname-lastname'
            git add . (adds all files)
            git commit -m "message about what changes you made to file'
            git push origin firstname-lastname 

Stretch Questions

    1. What is the difference between an inline element and a block element?
        You can't put block elements inside inline elements. Inline elements do not force a new line to begin in the document flow.
        Block elements typically cause a line break to occur.
    2. What happens when an element is positioned absolutely?
         An element that is absolutely positioned is taken out of the flow and other elements are positioned as if it did not exist.
    3. How do I make an element take up only the amount of space it needs but also have the ability to give it a width? 
        By using the box model.
    4. Name 3 elements that are diplay block by default, 2 elements that are display inline by default and 1 element that is display inline-block by default
        div, section, footer are block. a, span are inline. nav is inline-block.
    5. In your own words, explain the box model. What is the fix for the box model?
         Box model is the marin, border and padding around an HTML element. The fix is box-sizing: border-box.
